# Power simulation for tongue twister project
This code implements a simulation to calculate the power necessary to replicate a study on the production of tongue twisters. The goal of the script is to determine how many participants would be needed to replicate a key effect from the study. To do so, it samples estimates from the statistical model reported in that paper and uses them to construct simulated data sets with similar properties, but taking into account the noise that is inherent in any behavioral measure. Once a new data set is simulated, the same statistical model is fit to the data, and the key comparison of interest (the interaction between place of articulation and voicing) is assessed to determine whether its inclusion improves model fit. A simulation is said to be "successful" if the interaction does improve model fit. Simulations are tested with many different numbers of participants, with 1000 simulations per sample size. The "optimal" sample size is determined to be the point at which adding more participants does not improve the number of successful simulations.

**Paper to be replicated:** This code replicates the behavioral measures from experiment 1 of McMillan and Corley (2010). That study measured the production of voice onset time (VOT, a durational property of consonants like "b" and "k") in the production of tongue twisters like "bat pat pat bat". One goal was to determine if changing the place of articulation of consonants in the twister (e.g. from "b", made at the lips, to "g", made with the back of the tongue against the soft palate) had a different effect than changes in voicing (e.g. from "b", which has a short VOT, to "p", which has a long VOT) in the production of all of these consonants.

**More details:** The pre-registration document for this replication project, and more details about planned analyses, can be found here: https://osf.io/zcr9p/. This project was developed with Gia Eapen and Matt Goldrick.
